My name is Patrick . I am a sinner , a simple country person , and the least of all believers . I am looked down upon by many . My father was Calpornius . He was a deacon ; his father was Potitus , a priest , who lived at Bannavem Taburniae . His home was near there , and that is where I was taken prisoner . I was about sixteen at the time . At that time , I did not know the true God . I was taken into captivity in Ireland , along with thousands of others . We deserved this , because we had gone away from God , and did not keep his commandments . We would not listen to our priests , who advised us about how we could be saved . The Lord brought his strong anger upon us , and scattered us among many nations even to the ends of the earth . It was among foreigners that it was seen how little I was ; 

It was there that the Lord opened up my awareness of my lack of faith . Even though it came about late , I recognised my failings . So I turned with all my heart to the Lord my God , and he looked down on my lowliness and had mercy on my youthful ignorance . He guarded me before I knew him , and before I came to wisdom and could distinguish between good and evil . He protected me and consoled me as a father does for his son ; 

That is why I cannot be silent – nor would it be good to do so – about such great blessings and such a gift that the Lord so kindly bestowed in the land of my captivity . This is how we can repay such blessings , when our lives change and we come to know God , to praise and bear witness to his great wonders before every nation under heaven ; 

This is because there is no other God , nor will there ever be , nor was there ever , except God the Father . He is the one who was not begotten , the one without a beginning , the one from whom all beginnings come , the one who holds all things in being – this is our teaching . And his son , Jesus Christ , whom we testify has always been , since before the beginning of this age , with the father in a spiritual way . He was begotten in an indescribable way before every beginning . Everything we can see , and everything beyond our sight , was made through him . He became a human being ; and , having overcome death , was welcomed to the heavens to the Father . The Father gave him all power over every being , both heavenly and earthly and beneath the earth . Let every tongue confess that Jesus Christ , in whom we believe and whom we await to come back to us in the near future , is Lord and God . He is judge of the living and of the dead ; he rewards every person according to their deeds . He has generously poured on us the Holy Spirit , the gift and promise of immortality , who makes believers and those who listen to be children of God and co-heirs with Christ . This is the one we acknowledge and adore – one God in a trinity of the sacred name ; 

He said through the prophet : ‘Call on me in the day of your distress , and I will set you free , and you will glorify me . ’ Again he said : ‘It is a matter of honour to reveal and tell forth the works of God . ’ ;